
The Austin metropolitan area is consistently recognized among the most inventive, creative, wired, educated, fit, and loved cities in which to live and work. 
The overall economic activity of the Austin MSA is growing at a brisk rate, 7.4% in 2017 per the Business Cycle Index by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
Austin was ranked as the 2017 Top Metro for Economic Growth Potential by Business Facilities 13th annual rankings report. 
The report cites Austin as one of the most dynamic and diverse metro economies in the nation and states that Austin “is a thriving cosmopolitan city that has it all including a highly skilled workforce with a demographic up-arrow that points to sustainable growth for years to come.”
Real gross domestic product (GDP) increased in the Austin–Round Rock metropolitan area by 4.9% compared to the U.S. average of 1.7%, per the latest report by the Bureau of Economic Analysis based on 2016 data. 
Growth in the metro area was led by the professional and business services sector. 
While the Austin economy has diversified over the last decade, the technology industry continues to play a large role in the City’s economic expansion.
Various semiconductor companies and leading chip designers with 10,000 to 15,000 jobs call Austin home along with Apple’s 6,000 employees in the metro area.
Just south east of downtown, Oracle recently opened their new corporate waterfront campus, a five-story 500,000-square foot facility that will initially house 3,000 tech workers. 
Oracle also purchased a new 295-unit apartment complex right next to their new corporate campus for use by their employees. 
Oracle has plans for expansion and recently purchased 6 acres just south of its corporate campus.
Going forward, Austin economic consulting firm, Texas Perspectives, projects the creation of 32,500 jobs in 2018 with personal income expanding in the 6% range. 
In the real estate area, according to Emerging Trends in Real Estate 2018 published by PricewaterhouseCoopers US and the Urban Land Institute, Austin held the second spot as the top market to watch in 2018. 
This report is the compilation of interviews and surveys of over 2,000 real estate professionals across all segments of the industry. 
Some of Austin’s strengths cited in the report include the attractiveness of the market to millennials and the presence of a research university. Nationwide trends identified by the report include the effect of generation Z on future retail and work space, housing shortages, senior housing, and the strength of multifamily markets.
Texas Economy – In 2017 the Texas economy expanded due to the energy sector’s increase in oil prices, manufacturing, professional and business sectors, and in the last quarter of the year, the reconstruction efforts on the Texas coast due to Hurricane Harvey. 
This economic expansion helped the statewide unemployment rate fall to a record low of 3.8% in 2017 with total new non-farm jobs exceeding 278,000. The state added 9% more jobs in energy and 2.8% more in manufacturing. Although unemployment levels have decreased to an all-time low, employee compensation remained stagnant as private hourly earnings have increased 1.1% statewide. 
Texas hourly wages overall are below the national average by $0.40, although Texas manufacturing jobs paid a 10.5% premium in hourly earnings compared to the national average.
With a gross state product of almost $1.6 trillion, the Texas economy is the second largest in the U.S. The longterm outlook for the State remains positive. 
According to the Real Estate Center at Texas A&M University, in 2017 the Texas Leading Economic Index, which measures future directional changes in the business cycle, rose 2.8% after faltering the two previous years. Further, the Texas Consumer Confidence Index jumped 19.6% reflecting this optimism.
Employment – Austin area employment growth continued to be solid in 2017. 
In December 2017, Austin’s unemployment rate of 2.7% was well below the state and national unemployment rates of 3.9% and 4.1%, respectively. 
2017 saw a 3.0% growth in job creation despite a tightening labor market in certain fields. 
Austin has a high demand for skilled workers as seen in the manufacturing sector where Austin manufacturers continue to move from traditional to advanced manufacturing requiring specific highly technical skills. High tech companies are continuing to expand their presence in Austin, including Oracle, Google, Apple, Facebook, and Amazon. 
Due to the demand for skilled labor, wages across the metro area increased for a fifth straight year. 
Job growth in the Austin MSA was ranked sixth along with several other cities when comparing activity in the top 50 metro areas per the U.S. Bureau of Labor statistics. 

Austin added more than 27,300 net new jobs in 2017. 
Sales Taxes – Consumer spending growth (as measured by sales tax collections) reflects Austin’s population and economic growth. 
Since 2009, sales tax revenue steadily increased. 
Fiscal year 2017 experienced a 2.9% increase over fiscal year 2016,which was a 4.2% increase over 2015. 
Lower-than anticipated growth in fiscal year 2017, despite a continued population influx, evidences the effects of minor gains in real income growth, but it also reflects the growing competitive challenge presented by the expansion of retail developments in Austin’s neighboring communities. 
Total personal income in the metro area grew 4.5% in 2017 up from 0.9% in 2016.
Tourism - Austin continues to be a destination for both business and recreational activities. 
Austin is known around the world as the “Live Music Capital of the World” with over 250 live music venues. 
Per the Downtown Austin Alliance, Austin has over 25.6 million visitors a year with a $7 billion annual economic impact from visitor spending. 
Other major festivals and events impacting the tourism economy include University of Texas athletic events, Austin Film Festival, Texas Book Festival, RTX Austin Animation & Gaming Experience, and the Statesman Capitol 10K.
Austin Bergstrom International Airport (ABIA) set new annual passenger traffic records in each of the last eight years. 
In 2017, passenger traffic reached 13.9 million, an 11.5% increase compared to 2016.
Texas economy expanded due to increase in oil prices. 
This economic expansion helped the unemployment rate fall to a record low of 3.8% in 2017 with total new non-farm jobs exceeding 278,000. 
The state added 9% more jobs in energy and 2.8% more in manufacturing. 
Employee compensation remained stagnant as private hourly earnings have increased 1.1% statewide. 
